(Narrator) IN THE UNITED
STATES AND CANADA,
THERE ARE OVER EIGHT
MILLION SINGLE MOTHERS.
THERE ARE ALSO TWO AND A
HALF MILLION SINGLE FATHERS.
(*)
IN THE LAST 10 YEARS, THE
NUMBER OF MEN LOOKING AFTER
CHILDREN BY THEMSELVES HAS
GROWN AT NEARLY THREE TIMES
THE RATE FOR WOMEN.
SINGLE DADS ARE BECOMING A
PHENOMENON OF OUR TIMES.
(*)
MARC GAGE IS A FORMER
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTER
EKING OUT A LIVING AS A
FREELANCE COMMUNICATIONS
CONSULTANT IN VANCOUVER.
HE'S ALSO A SINGLE FATHER,
ALTHOUGH IT WAS NOT
SOMETHING HE EXPECTED.
THE MOTHER OF MY CHILD IS AN
OLD FRIEND FROM HIGH SCHOOL.
AND OVER THE COURSE OF TIME,
WE'VE COME TOGETHER FOR ONE
THING OR ANOTHER. AND THEN ONE
DARK AND STORMY NIGHT, BACK IN
NOVEMBER OF 1991, I WAS
DOWN THERE ON ASSIGNMENT,
WE GOT TOGETHER. ONE OF
THOSE EVENINGS, AS THEY SAY.
SHE CALLED ME TO TELL ME THAT
SHE HAD MY BABY DAUGHTER.
WE HAD A LENGTHY DISCUSSION
AS TO WHY I WASN'T TOLD!
AND SHE SAID, "WELL, I JUST
DIDN'T WANNA TELL YOU.
AND I DIDN'T WANNA TELL ANYBODY.
AND I PLACED THE CHILD FOR
ADOPTION AND THERE'LL BE A
NUMBER OF BITS AND PIECES OF
PAPER COMING YOUR WAY. BECAUSE
LEGALLY YOU HAVE TO SIGN OFF
ON THE DOTTED LINE, GIVING
PERMISSION FOR THE CHILD TO BE
ADOPTED." AND I SAID, "WELL,
LET'S JUST THINK ABOUT THIS FOR
HALF A SECOND." AND SHE
SUGGESTED I THINK ABOUT IT
AND CALL HER BACK IN A FEW DAYS.
AND I DID. AND I CALLED HER BACK
AND I SAID, "LOOK I'VE THOUGHT
ABOUT THIS AND THERE ARE TWO
OPTIONS. ONE - YOU RAISE THE
CHILD AND I PAY. OR B, I BRING
THE CHILD TO B.C." AND SHE SAID,
"NO. NO. THE BABY HAS BEEN
PLACED. THE ADOPTIVE COUPLE HAVE
BEEN SELECTED AND THEY'RE SIMPLY
WAITING FOR YOU TO SIGN
OFF ON THE DOTTED LINE."
AND I SAID,
"I'M NOT DOING IT."
THE ADOPTION AGENCY WAS
CALLED JEWELS FOR JESUS.
QUITE A RELIGIOUS, CHRISTIAN,
BORN AGAIN ORGANIZATION AND
THEY HAD PICKED A CHRISTIAN
FAMILY FOR THE CHILD AND AS
A MATTER OF FACT, UNBEKNOWNST TO
ME, THE MOTHER AND THE FATHER
ADOPTEES HAD ALREADY STARTED TO
VISIT KELSEY AND THEY WERE JUST
WAITING FOR ME TO COME
IN AND SIGN OFF ON IT.
AND SHE TRIED EVERYTHING. SHE
WAS QUITE PERSUASIVE BUT SHE -
THERE WAS NO BLOODY WAY I WAS
CHANGING MY MIND. END OF STORY.
THERE'S NO HYPOTHETICAL IN
THIS EQUATION, AS FAR AS I'M
CONCERNED. YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE HELL YOU WOULD DO UNLESS
YOU'RE CONFRONTED WITH IT,
BOTTOM LINE. SOMETHING INSIDE MY
BRAIN SAID, "YOU CAN'T GIVE
AWAY YOUR FLESH AND BLOOD".
(Narrator) AND SO
THEIR JOURNEY BEGAN.
MARC HAD AN INFANT DAUGHTER
AND KELSEY HAD A SINGLE DAD.
(Marc) I THOUGHT, "FEW DIAPERS,
A LITTLE BIT OF FORMULA,
A LITTLE BIT OF FOOD, BURPING,
WHAT THE HELL, PIECE OF CAKE,
ANY IDIOT CAN DO IT, RIGHT?"
WRONG! FOR THE FIRST 18 MONTHS,
TWO YEARS, IT WAS HELL. IT WAS
REALLY DIFFICULT TO BALANCE YOUR
LIFE, 'CAUSE I'M 40 YEARS OLD.
ALL OF A SUDDEN HERE IS AN
8-WEEK-OLD BABY - WHAT THE
---- AM I DOING? BUT I MEAN,
I MADE THE DECISION. IT WAS A
CONSCIOUS DECISION. THIS IS
SOMETHING I WANTED TO DO.
I JUST THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
A HELL OF A LOT
EASIER THAN IT WAS.
WHEN KELSEY CAME ALONG, I
DIDN'T KNOW THE FIRST THING
ABOUT PARENTING. BUT THEN KIDS
DON'T COME WITH INSTRUCTIONS.
AND THERE'S NO REFUNDS
AND NO RETURNS.
MARC HAD REMAINED FRIENDS
WITH HIS EX-WIFE GINETTE,
WHO RAN A RESTAURANT
OUTSIDE OF MONTREAL.
GINETTE WOULD BECOME THE
FIRST OF THE STAND-IN MOTHERS
TO FLOW IN AND
OUT OF KELSEY'S LIFE.
USUALLY A WOMAN GOES THROUGH
NINE MONTHS OF GETTING USED TO
HAVING A BABY AND THAT'S A
TRAUMA. SO CAN YOU IMAGINE
GIVING YOURSELF TWO WEEKS TO
DECIDE, YOU KNOW, THIS IS -
AM I GOING TO
DO THIS OR NOT?
(Marc) SHE WAS THE ONE TO WHOM
I TURNED WHEN I FIRST DECIDED
THAT I WAS GOING TO KEEP MY
CHILD. SO HERE'S MY EX-WIFE
COMING OUT TO VANCOUVER WITH ME
ON THE AIRPLANE FROM TORONTO TO
HELP ME BEGIN TO RAISE MY CHILD.
IT'S A, IT'S A - I THINK IT'S
A SCRIPT FOR A
MOVIE, ISN'T IT?
(Ginette) I THINK IT WAS A VERY,
VERY POSITIVE CHANGE FOR MARC.
IT MADE HIM A BETTER PERSON,
A MORE HUMAN PERSON,
MORE TOLERANT, MORE PATIENT.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN HE'S PATIENT.
THAT MEANS HE'S A
LITTLE BIT MORE PATIENT.
THERE WAS NO DOUBT IN MY MIND
HE WOULD TAKE KELSEY -
NO DOUBT WHATSOEVER.
I THINK IT WAS THE
RIGHT DECISION.
MARC ALSO RELIED
ON HIS FAMILY.
HIS SISTER KELLY MOVED IN
DURING THE EARLY YEARS.
(Kelly) I SAW MARC WITH KELSEY
AND, AND FIGURED THAT HE ALSO
NEEDED MY HELP. SHE'S TAPPED
INTO HIS MATERNAL SIDE, IF YOU
WILL. HE SHOWS AFFECTION
OPENLY, WHEREAS BEFORE
HE DIDN'T REALLY DO THAT.
(Marc) FROM A DISTANCE IT LOOKS
PRETTY EASY, YOU KNOW, I THOUGHT
IT WOULD BE PRETTY EASY. I
MEAN, IT WAS REALLY STRESSFUL,
SO STRESSFUL I WENT TO MY DOCTOR
AND I SAID, "SOMETIMES I THINK
I'M GONNA KILL THE KID. OR KILL
MYSELF. OR KILL BOTH OF US."
AND HE SAYS, "WELL, YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO DO THAT BECAUSE
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT IT. PEOPLE
WHO GENERALLY DO THAT SHOW NO
WARNING." HE SAYS, "HOWEVER, GO
AND TALK TO THIS PSYCHOLOGIST".
AND I THOUGHT, "OH CHRIST, A
PSYCHOLOGIST - I'M A WACKO."
HE SAYS, "NO, NO, NO, YOU'RE NOT
A WACKO." HE SAYS, "BUT THEY
WILL - SHE'LL HELP
YOU THROUGH IT. "
(Narrator) AS THE YEARS WORE
ON FOR MARC AND KELSEY GAGE,
IT BECAME MORE AND MORE
JUST THE TWO OF THEM.
A SINGLE DAD WITH HIS SEVEN
AND A HALF YEAR OLD DAUGHTER.
(Kelsey) CAN YOU GET ME
A STARBUCKS CAPPUCCINO?
I CANNOT.
WHY?
BECAUSE.
YOU SAID YOU WOULD.
IN THE SUMMER.
(Marc) I AM THE MOST UNLIKELY
CANDIDATE FOR PARENTHOOD THAT
YOU WILL EVER MEET. ANYBODY WHO
KNOWS ME AND HEARD WHAT I HAD
DONE, THOUGHT THEY WERE HEARING
THINGS. THEY THOUGHT IT WAS
A JOKE. BECAUSE, I MEAN,
I DIDN'T WANT KIDS.
IT WASN'T PART OF THE EQUATION,
IT WASN'T GOING TO HAPPEN.
YOU HAVE TO TAKE
MORE THAN TWO.
WHY?
BECAUSE WE NEED
MORE THAN TWO.
WHY?
TWO'S NOTHING, YOU
NEED NOURISHMENT,
YOU NEED TO EAT
VEGETABLES OR YOUR
TEETH WILL FALL OUT.
OH, DAD.
SHE WANTS ME TO CUT THE CRUSTS
OFF BECAUSE SHE DOESN'T LIKE
THE CRUSTS. CRUSTS ARE
GOOD FOR YOUR TEETH.
OH OKAY, OKAY I
HEARD YOU 1,000...
DO YOU WANT YOUR
TEETH TO FALL OUT?
YOU'RE WEIRD,
BUT I STILL LIKE YOU.
OH DADDY, DADDY, CAN WE
GO IN THE PLAYGROUND?
MARC'S WORK HAS BEEN
FREELANCE AND IRREGULAR.
WHILE WAITING FOR A JOB
OVERSEAS, HE DECIDED NOT TO
LEASE AN APARTMENT BUT INSTEAD
LIVE WITH VARIOUS FRIENDS
FOR SHORT PERIODS. BUT
IT'S BEEN TWO YEARS NOW,
AND HE AND KELSEY HAVE CAMPED
OUT IN SEVEN DIFFERENT
APARTMENTS. THEY'RE
CURRENTLY SHARING A TINY
CONDO WITH MARILYN,
A FRIEND OF MARC'S.
HERE WE ARE.
ARE YOU READY?
YES, YES.
IT'S, SHALL WE SAY, IT'S SMALL.
BUT SHE'S GOT A GOOD HEART
AND SO SHE'S LOOKING AFTER US
UNTIL I FIGURE OUT WHAT THE
HELL I'M GOING TO DO WITH MY
LIFE. I MEAN, SHE'S A SEVEN AND
A HALF YEAR OLD LITTLE GIRL
WITH LOTS OF ENERGY. AND SO,
QUITE FRANKLY, WE DON'T
SPEND A LOT OF TIME IN HERE.
I MEAN, SHE COMES HOME FROM
SCHOOL, SHE HAS HER BATH, GOES
TO SLEEP AND THEN UP AND GONE.
AND SHE GOES TO BROWNIES,
SHE GOES TO KARATE. SHE'S OUT
PLAYING WITH HER FRIENDS.
THANK GOD THE WEATHER HERE IN
BRITISH COLUMBIA IS CONDUCIVE
TO BEING OUTSIDE MORE THAN IT
IS IN THE REST OF THE COUNTRY
DURING WHAT THEY CALL "WINTER".
I PUT EVERYTHING IN STORAGE
BECAUSE I DIDN'T KNOW IF I'D BE
COMING BACK HERE. AND BECAUSE
I'M NOT REALLY SETTLED YET,
I DECIDED TO LEAVE EVERYTHING
IN STORAGE - IT'S MUCH CHEAPER
TO PAY A HUNDRED A MONTH, THEN
1200 A MONTH AND HAVING TO PUT
IT ALL BACK AGAIN.
(*)
SHE'S ASKED ME A COUPLE OF
TIMES WHEN WE'RE GOING TO GET
OUR OWN PLACE, AND I SAID,
"WHEN DADDY FIGURES OUT WHAT IT
IS HE'S GOING TO DO, WE'LL
GET A PLACE TO LIVE".
(*)
I'M GRATEFUL FOR HAVING A
NUMBER OF FRIENDS WHO'VE OFFERED
ME A ROOF OVER MY HEAD INSTEAD
OF A DUMPSTER IN AN ALLEY.
JESUS CHRIST,
THAT'S ENOUGH!
SO I'M STAYING WITH A FRIEND
UNTIL I BASICALLY DECIDE WHAT
I'M GOING TO DO WHEN I GROW UP.
WHAT IF YOU HAD
SLIPPED? HEAD SPLATTED
ON THE GROUND?!
SCRUB THE BODY,
SCRUB THE BODY.
I DON'T ADVOCATE DOING THIS.
THIS IS NOT THE WAY TO DO IT.
TWO PARENT FAMILIES ARE MUCH,
MUCH BETTER. MUCH BETTER.
THIS SINGLE PARENT STUFF IS -
WHILE IT MAY BE NOVEL AND IT
MAY BE INTERESTING,
IT'S NOT THE WAY TO GO.
I'M LOOKING FOR NITS,
DO WE SEE ANY NITS IN HERE?
(Kelsey) GOD DAD,
YOU'RE WEIRD.
(Marc) LICE.
DID YOU GO LIKE THIS?
THAT'S RIGHT.
EWWW, GROSS!
AS KELSEY NEARED HER
EIGHTH BIRTHDAY,
SHE WAS BECOMING MORE
CURIOUS ABOUT THINGS THAT
WERE MISSING IN HER LIFE.
INTO THE SACK.
SHE KNOWS HER MOTHER EXISTS,
SHE KNOWS SHE LIVES IN ONTARIO
AND SHE KNOWS SHE
HAS A HALF-BROTHER.
I'LL SEE YOU IN
THE MORNING, OKAY?
AND SO MARC GAGE DECIDED IT
WAS TIME TO TAKE HIS DAUGHTER
TO TORONTO.
(Kelsey) YES, AND HERE'S AN
UGLY LOOKING MAN NEAR THIS
WONDERFUL LOOKING PIECE OF ART!
(Marc) IT WAS KIND OF
ANTI-CLIMACTIC BECAUSE WE BANGED
ON THE DOOR, THE DOOR WAS OPEN,
WE WALKED DOWN THE STAIRS,
THERE WAS MOM AT THE BOTTOM OF
THE STAIRS. KELSEY GOES "MOMMY",
HUGGED HER MOMMY AND SAW THE
TWO CATS AND AWAY SHE WENT.
SHE GAVE US ICE-CREAM
AND HER TWO CATS -
ONE'S LAZY AND ONE
LIKES TO BE CHASED.
(Marc) AND THEN HER HALF-BROTHER
CAME IN, AND THEY GOT ALONG
FAMOUSLY. IT WAS AS IF THEY'D,
THEY'D KNOWN EACH OTHER
ALL THEIR LIVES. SHE'S ALWAYS
KNOWN SHE'S HAD A MOM,
AND I GUESS, THIS JUST CONFIRMED
IN HER LITTLE MIND THAT THIS
WAS, THAT SHE REALLY DID HAVE
A MOM AND SHE WAS ABLE TO PUT
A FACE TO THIS ICON OF
MOTHERHOOD. THE THING THAT,
THAT BUGS ME, I SUPPOSE, IS
THAT, YOU KNOW, WE'VE, WE'VE
BEEN THERE, WE'VE DONE THAT,
WE'VE BEEN THROUGH IT BUT THE
PHONE HASN'T RUNG AND THERE'S
BEEN NO CORRESPONDENCE FROM
EITHER MOTHER OR BROTHER SO THAT
MAY... THAT MAY BE FESTERING
AWAY IN HER LITTLE BRAIN. I
DON'T KNOW. THAT'S SOMETHING,
I SUPPOSE, THAT WE'LL HAVE TO
TALK ABOUT. BUT I'M - I'M A BIT
PISSED OFF THAT SHE HASN'T
TAKEN MORE OF A ROLE.
(*)
(Marc) DO YOU REMEMBER
THIS PLACE?
(Kelsey) YES.
(Marc) AND HOW OLD WAS THIS?
100 MILLION YEARS OLD.
EXACTLY. AND THIS IS
WHERE THEY USED TO
SACRIFICE VIRGINS.
WHAT'S THAT MEAN?
THAT'S A PERSON WHO'S
NEVER BEEN MARRIED.
(Marc) THERE'S MORE - THERE'S
MORE OF A STABILITY RIGHT NOW
THAN THERE WAS OVER THE
LAST TWO YEARS, I GUESS.
AND SO I DECIDED, "WELL THE
KID SHOULD HAVE HER OWN ROOM".
AND SO, AT THIS POINT
IN TIME, WE'RE RENTING.
(Kelsey) MY DAD SAID HE'S HAPPY
I HAVE A ROOM, 'CAUSE WHEN I WAS
AT MARILYN'S ALL I HAD WAS,
ALL I SLEPT ON WAS A SOFA.
AND IT WAS NOT VERY COMFORTABLE.
SO WHEN WE FIRST MOVED IN,
HE WAS VERY, VERY HAPPY WE
ALL HAD OUR OWN ROOMS.
SHORTLY AFTER WE MOVED IN HERE,
THERE WAS A LEAK IN THE SINK IN
THE BATHROOM. AND SO I HAD TO
GATHER EVERYTHING OUT AND PUT IT
IN A LITTLE BOX UNTIL THE
PLUMBER CAME IN TO REPAIR,
CORRECT WHATEVER, WHATEVER THE
PROBLEM WAS. SO SHE COMES HOME
FROM SCHOOL, COMES UPSTAIRS AND
GOES, "OH MY GOD, DADDY,
ARE WE MOVING AGAIN?!"
I SAID, "NO, NO, NO, NO.
THE SINK'S JUST BROKEN."
(laughs)
(*)
WE'VE GOT A PRETTY GOOD RAPPORT,
A PRETTY GOOD RELATIONSHIP.
WE'RE BUDDIES, WE'RE PALS.
AND AS SHE GETS MORE MATURE,
THAT'LL ONLY GET BETTER.
UNTIL OF COURSE, SHE HAS HER
FIRST PERIOD, AND GETS INTO
PUBERTY AND THEN SHE'LL
TELL ME THAT I'M AN IDIOT.
REEL THIS IN AND LET'S
SEE IF THERE'S FISH AT
THE END OF IT.
SO I GUESS I'VE GOT SOMETHING
TO LOOK FORWARD TO.
SO THAT'S CHAPTER... IS IT
CHAPTER TWO, OR CHAPTER 202?
FOR MARC GAGE IT IS CLEAR THAT
THE MOST IMPORTANT DECISION
HE EVER MADE CHANGED
THE COURSE OF HIS LIFE.
FOR TOM NELSON OF EDMONTON,
LIFE OFFERED NO SUCH
MOMENT OF CHOICE.
(Tom) I CAUGHT YOUR MOTHER IN
THE MORNING WHEN SHE WOKE UP.
(Anna) A WOMAN'S DREAM!
(Tom) SHE ALWAYS HAD VERY GOOD
HUMOUR. SHE'S SMILING THERE AND
THAT WAS A SPLENDID TIME. ONE
OF THE TIMES WHEN YOU THINK
BACK IN YOUR LIFE,
THERE ARE FEW
TIMES THAT ARE,
SORT OF GOLDEN, OKAY.
TOM NELSON WAS ONLY TEN
WHEN HIS MOTHER DIED.
HE WAS RAISED BY
A SINGLE FATHER.
TOM GREW TO MANHOOD, SURVIVED
THE SECOND WORLD WAR,
BECAME A CAREER ACADEMIC,
MARRIED AND HAD THREE
CHILDREN. IN THE SUMMER OF
1967, HE AND HIS WIFE, JOYCE,
WERE EXPECTING
THEIR FOURTH CHILD.
SHE DIED IN CHILDBIRTH AND
IT WAS A TERRIBLE TRAUMA.
YOU FEEL THE DIFFERENT
RESPONSIBILITY WHEN SOMETHING
LIKE THAT HAPPENS.
I KNEW WHAT I HAD TO DO.
I'D ALREADY LIVED
THROUGH IT, YOU KNOW.
AND YOU TOOK CARE OF YOUR
FAMILY ONCE, AND SECONDLY YOU
DIDN'T GET MARRIED UNTIL
THEY NO LONGER NEEDED YOU.
THE BOY WHO'D BEEN RAISED
BY A SINGLE FATHER
WAS NOW A SINGLE DAD HIMSELF
WITH THREE YOUNG CHILDREN.
MY WIFE DIED 35 YEARS AGO, SO
I'M QUITE A DISTANCE FROM THAT
EVENT NOW. BUT WHEN I THINK
ABOUT IT - AND I TRY NOT TO DO
THAT - IT'S AS FRESH AS IT WAS
AT THE TIME I WAITED IN THE,
IN THE HOSPITAL AND THEY
CAME OUT TO TELL ME,
"YOUR WIFE IS DYING, GO IN AND
SEE HER". AND I WENT IN AND
TALKED WITH HER. AND THEN LATER,
WHEN SHE DIED, I TOOK HER TO THE
MORGUE MYSELF, YOU KNOW. BUT
THOSE THINGS ARE VERY FRESH
AND I TRY NOT TO THINK OF THEM
BECAUSE THEY DO
YET OVERWHELM ME.
THE IRONY OF JOYCE'S DEATH
WAS NOT LOST ON TOM NELSON,
WHAT HIS CHILDREN WERE
NOW GOING THROUGH,
HE HIMESLF HAD EXPERIENCED.
MY FATHER TOLD ME IN THE
MORNING. HE SAID, "YOUR MOTHER
DIED LAST NIGHT." HE SAID, "I
TAKE CARE OF YOU NOW". HE SAID,
"I WANT TO TELL YOU THAT I WILL
TAKE CARE OF YOU AND I PROMISED
YOUR MOTHER THAT I WOULDN'T
MARRY UNTIL YOU'RE GROWN."
SO, SO THOSE WERE THE RULES
THAT WERE SET DOWN.
WE ALL KNOW LIFE GOES ON. AND
YOU HAVE A SET OF OBLIGATIONS
- I'VE GOT THREE CHILDREN. MY
WIFE DIED ON MY YOUNGEST CHILD'S
SECOND BIRTHDAY. I'VE GOT TO
DEAL WITH THE DISAPPEARANCE OF
THEIR MOTHER, BECAUSE OF COURSE,
THEY RESIST THAT IDEA BECAUSE
THEY HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE OF IT.
HIS ELDEST CHILD, ANNA, IS
NOW A HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER.
SHE WAS SIX
WHEN HER MOTHER DIED.
(Anna) MY DAD NEVER LET US SULK
OR, YOU KNOW, "IT'S OKAY TO CRY
BUT LIKE, GET OVER IT AND LET'S
GET ON WITH THINGS, YOU KNOW."
AND CRYING DOESN'T SOLVE VERY
MUCH. IT MAKES YOU FEEL GOOD FOR
ABOUT LIKE ONE SECOND AND THEN
YOU'RE, THEN YOU'RE AN IDIOT,
YOU KNOW. AND, AND I DO AGREE
ABOUT THE PICTURES ON THE WALL.
HE, MY DAD - WE NEVER HAD
PICTURES OUT OF MY MOTHER.
AND HE NEVER REALLY
TALKED ABOUT HER.
THESE ARE PICTURES,
OF COURSE, THAT
HAVE TO DO WITH
YOUR CHILDHOOD,
YOU KNOW?
(Anna) YOU CAN'T LIVE LIFE IN
THE PAST. YOU CAN'T SIT AROUND
AND GO, "OH, YOU KNOW, IF YOUR
MOTHER WAS HERE TODAY, WE WOULD,
BLAH, BLAH, BLAH, BLAH, BLAH."
WELL, SHE'S NOT, SO DO IT
ANYWAY. AND I THINK THAT IS
SORT OF WHAT MY DAD MEANT,
OR HOW I TOOK IT ANYWAY. IT
ALLOWS YOU TO RECOVER, I THINK,
FAIRLY QUICKLY FROM LIFE'S
LITTLE, LITTLE TROUBLES.
AND BECAUSE YOU KNOW THAT THE
FASTER YOU DO IT, THE EASIER
LIFE IS... YOU KNOW? AND THERE'S
NO POINT IN CRYING ABOUT IT
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
CHANGE ANYTHING.
(Tom) AFTER THE CHILDREN ARE IN
BED, I COULD WORK UNTIL ABOUT
TWO O'CLOCK IN THE MORNING
AND THEN GO TO BED AND,
ANAESTHETIZED, GO TO SLEEP.
GET UP IN THE MORNING AT EIGHT
AND... DO THE SAME THING AGAIN.
LIKE EVERY OTHER FATHER,
DR. TOM NELSON,
ACADEMIC PSYCHOLOGIST, DID
NOT ESCAPE THE TRAUMA THAT
COMES WITH HAVING
A TEENAGE DAUGHTER.
(Tom) MY DAUGHTER. MY DAUGHTER
AND I, WE DIFFERED IN, IN A LOT
OF RESPECTS. AND SHE JUST
THOUGHT I WAS PRETTY MUCH OUT
TO LUNCH, YOU KNOW. AND SO I
COULDN'T ACCEPT THAT KIND OF
TREATMENT FROM HER. AND THERE
WAS ABOUT THREE OR FOUR YEARS
WHICH WE HAD VIRTUALLY NOTHING
TO DO WITH ONE ANOTHER.
BUT THEN SHE NEEDED ME AT
SOME POINT, AND OF COURSE,
I ALWAYS NEEDED HER.
THERE WAS A TIME WHEN I, I
DIDN'T WANT TO BE WITH MY DAD,
YOU KNOW. 'CAUSE HE WAS, HE HAD
AN OPINION ABOUT, JUST ABOUT
EVERYTHING. AND HE THOUGHT HE
WAS RIGHT, AND HE TALKED IN A
LOUD VOICE AND YOU KNOW,
BLAH, BLAH, BLAH, BLAH, BLAH.
AND HE DIDN'T DO THINGS THE
RIGHT WAY. AND HE USED TO WEAR
THESE REALLY GARISHLY LOUD TIES
THAT - WITH CLASHING SHIRTS.
AND I DIDN'T KNOW HOW I COULD
POSSIBLY WALK DOWN THE STREET
WITH HIM WEARING THAT. AND HE
HAD THIS BLACK SUIT - I CALLED
IT "THE MAFIA SUIT" - IT HAD
LIKE THIS WHITE STITCHING.
I HATED THAT SUIT.
I HAD BOUGHT A RED
SUEDE JACKET, YOU
KNOW HOW I WAS,
I WAS ALWAYS LOOKING
FOR A BARGAIN,
I GOT A TREMENDOUS
BARGAIN ON THIS
JACKET.
(Anna) BUT NOW, YOU KNOW. NOW
I REALIZE THAT, YOU KNOW,
IT WASN'T HIM AT ALL - IT WAS
ME. I WAS SORT OF A JERK AND...
TOO, TOO YOUNG TO KNOW THE
REALITY OF LIFE. AND, YOU KNOW.
NOW MY DAD'S A PRETTY GOOD GUY,
SO THERE'S HOPE FOR THE FUTURE,
YOU KNOW. I SUPER LIKE BEING
WITH MY DAD NOW. AND - ARGUING
IN PUBLIC NOW IS
A FUN THING!
(Tom) WHAT I WONDER ABOUT - AND
I CAN NEVER KNOW - IS WHAT
THEY'RE LIKE INSIDE FROM THIS
EVENT. AND I, I WORRY ABOUT IT,
BECAUSE HERE THERE ARE TWO
GENERATIONS OF MASCULINE
DOMINATION IN THEIR, IN THEIR
PREPARATION FOR LIFE.
AND I THOUGHT MORE LIKE MY
FATHER THAN I WOULD HAVE,
HAD MY MOTHER LIVED. AND NOW
THEY'RE GIVEN THAT AS A FATHER,
WHO IS ALREADY BIASED
AND NOW HAS AN ADDITIONAL
BIAS TO FIX ON THEM.
(Anna) I THINK SOMETIMES MY DAD
FEELS GUILTY THAT HE WASN'T,
THAT HE WASN'T MORE HUGGY
AND HE WASN'T MORE KISSY,
AND HE DIDN'T GIVE US
MORE "I LOVE YOU"S,
BUT THAT STUFF IS SUPERFICIAL.
YOU KNOW - ANYBODY CAN DO THAT.
AND THEY DON'T EVEN HAVE TO LIKE
YOU. YOU KNOW, THOSE ARE JUST
EMPTY WORDS. AND I THINK WHAT
YOU DO AND HOW YOU LIVE YOUR
LIFE AND HOW YOU TREAT YOUR
CHILDREN AND THE THINGS YOU DO
WITH THEM - LIKE ALL THE CAMPING
TRIPS WE WENT ON, AND THE FACT
THAT HE HAD THREE CHILDREN
AND HE HAD THREE DOGS TOO.
AND HE HAD A FULL - YOU KNOW,
FULL-TIME JOB AND HE, HE DID
ALL THAT STUFF. THAT STUFF IS,
IN RETROSPECT, YOU KNOW,
IS WORTH A LOT MORE THAN ALL
THAT OTHER STUFF. ALL THAT OTHER
STUFF IS JUST - IT'S GREAT, YOU
KNOW, IT'S OKAY. AND IT'S GOOD
SOMETIMES. BUT IF THAT'S ALL
YOU HAVE TO BASE YOUR LIFE
FOUNDATION ON,
THEN IT'S NOTHING.
HERE'S ANOTHER PICTURE
THAT'S A PICTURE OF
YOU KNOW WHO!
IN MY BUFFALO HAT! I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU'VE
SEEN THAT ONE EITHER.
THIS IS THE SAME TIME?
(Tom) YEAH, SAME
TIME, RIGHT.
I CALL THIS
THE GOOD DAYS,
AND THEY WERE.
MY CHILDHOOD WAS GREAT, LIKE,
I DIDN'T MISS ANYTHING.
AND I DID GET EVERYTHING YOU
NEED FROM, WELL, IN THIS CASE
FROM MY DAD. AND YOU GROW UP TO,
TO BE SELF RELIANT AND CAN MAKE,
FOR THE MOST PART, VERY SOUND
DECISIONS ABOUT YOURSELF AND,
AND YOU LEARN TO, I THINK,
LIVE LIFE WITH NO REGRETS.
(Tom) MY CHILDREN ARE EXTREMELY
STRONG, ALL THREE OF THEM,
AS PERSONS. I HAVE TWO THAT ARE
MARRIED AND ONE IS PREPARING
TO GET MARRIED. YOU KNOW, I'M SO
DELIGHTED WITH THE GRANDCHILDREN
AND, AND, AND BEING IN THEIR
PRESENCE AND BEING EXCEPTED
AS A PERSON WHO IS DESIRABLE
TO BE AROUND, YOU KNOW?
AT LEAST FOR A COUPLE
OF HOURS! (chuckles)
AND SOMEBODY WHO THEY WANT
THEIR CHILDREN TO KNOW.
WHEN HIS CHILDREN WERE OLD
ENOUGH TO MAKE THEIR OWN WAY
IN THE WORLD, 34 YEARS
AFTER HIS WIFE DIED,
AND HE'D RETIRED AS
DEPARTMENT HEAD OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA,
TOM NELSON,
IN HIS 70s, REMARRIED.
HIS NEW WIFE IS HIS
FIRST WIFE'S SISTER.
(*)
BUT ANOTHER DAD, ROSS
HEIGHT IN SASKATCHEWAN,
IS RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE ROLLERCOASTER RIDE
OF SINGLE PARENTHOOD.
(Ross) THIS IS THE WAY IT IS.
PEOPLE MIGHT LOOK AT US FUNNY
OR THUMB THEIR NOSES AT ME,
THINK I'M A BURDEN ON SOCIETY,
I DON'T CARE. GO AHEAD. THINK
WHAT YOU WANT. BUT I DON'T
EXPECT YOU UNDERSTAND. OR DON'T
TELL ME YOU KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE
TO BE ME OR ANY OTHER SINGLE
PARENT DAD, MOM, I DON'T CARE
WHAT, JUST BECAUSE YOU SAT IN
SOME SCHOOL AND READ THE BOOK.
DON'T TELL ME YOU
KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE.
BECAUSE YOU DON'T.
SIX WEEKS AFTER HIS WIFE
SUDDENLY LEFT WITH THEIR
THREE CHILDREN, AND STILL NOT
SURE WHERE THEY HAD GONE,
THE BEST THING IN ROSS
HEIGHT'S LIFE WAS HIS JOB.
HE WAS A LONG HAUL TRUCK
DRIVER, LICENSED TO CARRY
DANGEROUS GOODS. IT WAS A
BIG PART OF WHO HE WAS.
BUT IT CAME TO
A SUDDEN END.
(Ross) I KNEW THAT TRACK WAS
THERE - I'D BEEN OVER IT 200
TIMES BEFORE. AND I DIDN'T
SEE NOTHING OUT THERE.
GOT THE THING ON THE TRACKS,
FELT THE FRONT WHEELS ON THE
RAILS AND I JUST
LOOKED OUT THE SIDE...
AND THIS BIG, DAMNED
BLACK THING...
IT WAS JUST BLACK
AND IT WAS HUGE.
(train whistle blows)
A PRAIRIE THUNDER STORM,
EXHAUSTION AND WORRY
WERE A DEADLY COMBINATION
FOR ROSS THAT NIGHT.
HE SURVIVED, BUT FOUND
HIMSELF ON MEDICATION
FOR THE REST OF HIS LIFE.
(Ross) OBVIOUSLY I LOST MY JOB
AT KINDERSLEY OVER THAT BECAUSE
THERE WAS DANGEROUS GOODS
INVOLVED AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
I WENT FROM HAVING A DEDICATED
RUN, SCHEDULED DAYS OFF,
TO SITTING BY THE PHONE,
WAITING FOR IT TO RING.
ANOTHER BUMMER, YOU KNOW.
AND EVERYTHING JUST
WENT WRONG FROM THERE ON.
THAT JOB MEANT
EVERYTHING TO HIM.
IT WAS A GOOD JOB.
ROSS'S FRIEND,
CAROLINE FENNER.
I'M SURE IT MADE IT HARD TO
GET OTHER GOOD JOBS SO IT WAS
DEVASTATING TO HIS, HIS WORK,
TO HAVE HAD THAT ACCIDENT.
AND I THINK IT ALSO MAYBE
MADE HIM REALIZE THAT...
JUST HOW MUCH HE WAS TROUBLED
BY THE KIDS BEING GONE.
TO HAVE AS GOOD A DRIVER AS HE
WAS, TO ALLOW THAT TO HAPPEN.
TO JUST DRIVE OVER THOSE
TRACKS AND NOT SEE THAT TRAIN.
THAT'S SOMETHING HE WOULDN'T DO.
HE'S TOO GOOD.
ROSS'S WIFE HAD LEFT THEIR
SMALL SASKATCHEWAN TOWN
WITH THE THREE KIDS.
(Ross) I JUST WENT HOME FROM
WORK ONE DAY AND THEY WERE GONE.
SHE WENT FOR FULL CUSTODY AND
THE JUDGE DIDN'T DO THAT,
BUT HE MIGHT AS WELL HAVE. WHAT
YOU GET IS JOINT CUSTODY WITH
THE PRIMARY RESIDENCE BEING WITH
HER. A DIFFERENT WAY OF SAYING
FULL CUSTODY. AND SHE WAS
GETTING, WHAT WAS I COUGHING UP
$450 A MONTH CHILD SUPPORT. AND
THEN I'D SEND BIKE MONEY OUT,
SKATEBOARD MONEY OUT
AND ALL THIS KIND OF
STUFF WHENEVER I COULD.
I THINK THE LOSS OF HIS
MARRIAGE WAS DEVASTATING BUT
BEING WITHOUT HIS CHILDREN
JUST ABOUT KILLED HIM.
HE REALLY WAS HURTING
ABOUT THOSE CHILDREN.
I'VE ONLY EVER SEEN ROSS
CRY ONCE IN HIS LIFE
AND THAT WAS ABOUT THE KIDS.
AND I DIDN'T GO TO COURT OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT TO GET THE
KIDS BACK. I CONSIDERED IT, I
LOOKED INTO IT. BUT I MEAN,
IT'S THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF
DOLLARS AND INTER-PROVINCIAL
LIKE THIS, THE LAWYERS ARE BIG
BUCKS. WHAT MADE IT EVEN WORSE
WAS ME BEING OUT HERE, HELPLESS,
KNOWING THEY'RE WAY OUT THERE
AND I CAN'T DO
ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
(Caroline) HE WAS HURTING SO BAD
THAT HE DIDN'T EVEN KNOW HIMSELF
WHAT HE WAS THINKING OR
FEELING SOME DAYS.
IT WAS SO HARD ON HIM.
BEFORE LONG, HE LOST HIS
HOUSE AND FOUND HIMSELF
ON A DOWNHILL SPIRAL.
IF ANYBODY WANTS TO TRADE
AND TRY IT OUT, LET ME KNOW!
AND THEN 18 MONTHS AFTER
THEY'D BEEN TAKEN AWAY,
HIS CHILDREN DECIDED THEY
WANTED TO COME BACK TO
SASKATCHEWAN AND LIVE
WITH THEIR DAD.
SO AT A TIME WHEN HE FELT
HE'D REACHED THE VERY BOTTOM,
ROSS HEIGHT SUDDENLY
BECAME THE SOLE SUPPORT FOR
14-YEAR-OLD JUSTIN,
13-YEAR-OLD JESSICA
AND THE BABY, SHANNON,
WHO WAS NOW 10.
(Ross) IT WASN'T A TOUGH
DECISION TO MAKE. I DIDN'T EVEN
CONSIDER NOT DOING IT. SO. I
CAN'T IMAGINE CONSIDERING NOT
DOING IT. THEY'RE YOUR KIDS,
FOR CHRIST'S SAKE. YOU KNOW.
THERE'S LOTS OF TIMES I WAS
WORRIED SICK ABOUT FEEDING THEM
AND EVERYTHING ELSE, BUT
I DO WHATEVER I CAN DO
RIGHT FROM SWEEPING PARKING
LOTS, QUITE OFTEN I GOT TO GO
TO SOCIAL SERVICES TO HELP US
OUT. I FEEL BAD WALKING IN THERE
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND I
KNOW I GOT NO DAMN CHOICE.
(*)
YOU DON'T NEED LUNCH
TODAY, DO YOU?
NO.
KIND OF BURNT,
THOUGH, HEY DAD?
DID I?
KIND OF CRISPY.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO
BE LIKE THAT.
I HAD TO TEACH HIM HOW TO
COOK PANCAKES AND MACARONI
AND GRILLED CHEESE, BUT I
ALREADY KNEW HOW TO COOK THAT.
IT WAS PRETTY MUCH
AUTOMATIC FOR HIM TO
JUST COME HOME AND
COOK. AND YOU KNOW,
IT JUST - HE ALWAYS
DID IT.
NEVER SAID ANYTHING
ABOUT IT. NEVER
ASKED US TO DO IT.
WHEN HE - LIKE HE'LL BE FRYING
THE SPAGHETTI, RIGHT, 'CAUSE HE
DOESN'T MICROWAVE IT, HE FRIES
IT. AND THEN HE BURNS IT.
AND IT'S ALL BURNT AND CRISPY
AND THEN HE MAKES ME EAT IT!
THAT'S JUST GROSS.
HE'S A GOOD COOK IF
HE'S COOKING MEAT
AND POTATOES.
YEAH. HE'S GOOD AT
WHAT HE CAN MAKE,
AND THAT'S NOT
A LOT. BUT!
WE'D SIT AROUND HERE AND LAUGH
AT OURSELVES, YOU KNOW -
AND SOME STUPID REMARK
SOMEBODY WOULD BRING OUT.
AND THEN WE'D TALK ABOUT -
WE'RE THE MOST FUNCTIONAL
DYSFUNCTIONAL FAMILY AROUND,
YOU KNOW. STUFF LIKE THAT!
(laughs)
IN A TINY RURAL COMMUNITY
IN SASKATCHEWAN,
A MAN LOOKING AFTER HIS
THREE CHILDREN BY HIMSELF
WAS A NOVELTY. THE CHILDREN
LEARNED EARLY THAT THEIR
SINGLE FATHER FAMILY
WAS SOMEHOW DIFFERENT.
I SAW YOU YESTERDAY.
YEAH, A LOT OF THE
TEACHERS AND STUFF
WERE KIND OF -
THERE WERE A FEW THAT
WEREN'T SURE ABOUT IT,
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
THE MAN DOING THE
COOKING AND THE CLEANING
AND EVERYTHING.
AND THEY JUST THOUGHT
THAT WASN'T RIGHT,
AND IT'S A FAIRLY
OLD-FASHIONED THINKING
IN MARTENSVILLE, SO...
SOME OF THE KIDS TELL ME THAT
THEIR PARENTS WANT TO, LIKE,
STAY TOGETHER, UNTIL THE KID'S
OUT. BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANNA
LIKE - THEY THINK THAT IT'LL
RUIN THEIR LIVES OR SOMETHING.
SO THEY JUST IGNORE EACH OTHER
TOTALLY, BUT THEY STAY TOGETHER.
AND THAT'S KIND OF WEIRD.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THOUGHT
IT WAS WEIRD THAT I WAS
LIVING WITH MY DAD AND
NOT MY MOM. BECAUSE
USUALLY YOU DON'T
LIVE WITH YOUR DAD.
I THINK HAVING ONE PARENT'S A
LOT BETTER THAN HAVING TWO,
ACTUALLY. 'CAUSE MOST OF MY
FRIENDS - BEFORE THEY CAN SLEEP
OVER, THEY HAVE TO TALK TO
THEIR MOM AND THEIR DAD.
AND I JUST TALK TO MY DAD AND
HE SAYS "YES" TO EVERYTHING, SO!
I'M BASICALLY ALLOWED
TO DO LOTS OF STUFF.
SOME STUFF HE DOESN'T LET ME DO
THOUGH, LIKE IF IT'S JUST GOING
OVER THE LINE, HE
WON'T LET ME DO IT.
(knocking on the door)
BYE DAD.
(Ross) SEE YA!
WHAT ARE YOU GOING
TO DO IF YOU'RE
LOCKED OUT?
I DUNNO.
(Shannon) I THINK IT'S REALLY
FUN LIVING IN MARTENSVILLE.
'CAUSE IT'S LIKE, I HAVE A
LOT OF FRIENDS NOW AND...
EVERYBODY'S ALWAYS PHONING ME
AND STUFF. SOME... I'M A GOOD
PEER MEDIATOR. PEER MEDIATOR IS
SOMEBODY THAT LIKE WALKS AROUND
THE SCHOOL GROUNDS AND HELPS
ANYBODY IF THEY'RE HAVING
TROUBLES THAT THEY CAN'T SOLVE
FOR THEMSELVES. THEN WE TAKE
THEM INTO A ROOM, IT'S KINDA
LIKE COUNSELLING. YOU GET TO
KNOW HOW TO SOLVE YOUR OWN
PROBLEMS WITHOUT HAVING TO LIKE,
BEAT THE CRAP OUTTA EACH OTHER
OR SOMETHING. EVEN THOUGH I'M
USUALLY NOT THE FIRST ONE TO
CALL UP AND SAY I'M SORRY.
WELL, YOU CAN'T SIT DOWN AND
BE "WELL, WHAT ABOUT MY LIFE?
WHAT ABOUT MY LIFE?" WELL,
THE HELL WITH YOUR LIFE.
YOU DO WHAT IT TAKES SO
THEY CAN HAVE A LIFE.
YOU KNOW - NO MATTER
WHAT IT TAKES.
OKAY, SHANNY, SEE IF
YOU CAN GET THAT IN YOU.
THEN YOU CAN
TAKE OFF.
DO YOUR
HOMEWORK AFTER.
YOU DON'T HAVE
MUCH, RIGHT?
NO. I ONLY HAVE
TWO QUESTIONS.
PSHAW. YOU GOTTA
EAT SOME OF THAT.
I ALREADY ATE
SOME OF THAT.
(Caroline) ROSS IS UM... HARD
AND TOUGH ON THE OUTSIDE,
BUT A BIG SOFT MARSHMALLOW
IN THE MIDDLE. HE'S UM...
KIND OF A MACHO KIND OF A GUY
UNTIL YOU GET TO KNOW HIM.
HE'S REALLY A GENTLE SOUL.
HAD ENOUGH?
YEAH.
OKAY. TAKE OFF.
9:30, OKAY?
UH HUH.
WELL, WAIT - 9.
I'M NOT GOING TO
BED AT 9:30!
I KNOW, BUT YOU'RE DOING
YOUR TWO QUESTIONS.
IT DOESN'T TAKE ME HALF
AN HOUR TO DO MY HOMEWORK.
FINE. 9:30.
THANK YOU!
SEE YA.
BYE.
BE GOOD.
I WILL.
FOR FOUR AND A HALF YEARS
ROSS STRUGGLED TO KEEP
HIS FAMILY TOGETHER,
BUT THEN A BOMBSHELL.
(Jessica) ME AND DAD WEREN'T
GETTING ALONG VERY WELL...
I FIGURED, THOUGHT
MAYBE TAKING SOME TIME
APART WOULD BE A GOOD
DECISION - GETTING TO
KNOW MOM BETTER AND...
MAYBE THAT WOULD BE GOOD.
JUSTIN AND JESSICA, THE
TWO ELDEST CHILDREN,
DECIDED IT WAS TIME TO MOVE
BACK IN WITH THEIR MOTHER.
I HAD TO GET USED TO THE IDEA
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO LEAVE.
THEY'VE GOT THEIR OWN
BRAINS, I CAN'T STOP THEM.
THE YEARS I'VE HAD THEM,
I'VE TRIED TO SHOW THEM THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN RIGHT AND
WRONG AND TO BE INDEPENDENT
THINKERS AND NOW
THEY'RE THINKING.
IT'S WHAT I TAUGHT THEM TO DO.
IN THE WINTER AFTER HER
BROTHER AND SISTER HAD GONE,
SHANNON DEVELOPED
HEALTH PROBLEMS.
SHE WAS THIN, AND HAD
DIFFICULTY EATING.
AFTER NUMEROUS MEDICAL
APPOINTMENTS, THERE WERE STILL
NO DIAGNOSIS AND
ROSS WAS WORRIED.
ENDED UP WITH
ANOTHER
PRESCRIPTION?
UH HUH
I'M BEGINNING TO WONDER
IF THOSE PILLS YOU'RE TAKING
AREN'T GIVING YOU
A STOMACH ACHE TOO.
OVER THE LONG PRAIRIE WINTER
THINGS GOT WORSE FOR ROSS.
MONEY WAS TIGHTER THAN EVER.
SHANNON WAS NOW A TEENAGER,
EXPENSES WERE HIGHER.
YOU GOTTA EAT
TWO, COME OFF IT,
TRY AND EAT TWO.
THE CAR NEEDED WORK,
MY PLATES WERE DUE.
JANUARY AND FEBRUARY AND STUFF
IS A BAD MONTH FOR ME,
JUST EVERYTHING.
SHANNY HAD NO CLOTHES TO WEAR
ANYMORE - SHE GREW ABOUT A FOOT.
I WAS JUST WONDERING
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT, EH.
IT'S LIKE WHEN YOU GOT NO
CONTROL OVER YOUR LIFE,
EVERYBODY ELSE IS PULLING THE
STRINGS AND YOU JUST KIND OF
SIT THERE AND WONDER WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT, EH.
WHAT ARE WE DOING
THIS SUMMER MAYBE?
I DUNNO.
MOVING?
YEAH.
WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT THAT?
I DON'T CARE.
TRY AND BE
NICE, OKAY?
I AM, BUT I DON'T CARE.
HE DECIDED TO MOVE OUT OF
MARTENSVILLE AND SHARE AN
APARTMENT WITH HIS FRIEND,
CAROLINE, IN SASKATOON,
A FEW KILOMETRES AWAY. BY THE
SPRING, SHANNON'S ILLNESS
WAS UNDER CONTROL, AND SHE
WAS SLOWLY RECOVERING.
BY MID SUMMER IT SEEMED THAT
LIFE WAS FINALLY TURNING AROUND
FOR ROSS HEIGHT. THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH CAROLINE
HAD DEEPENED AND HE NOW HAD A
WELL PAYING JOB CAT SKINNING
FOR THE OIL PATCH.
(Ross) IT'S FAMILIAR STUFF
AND I ENJOY DOING IT.
ACTUALLY, I'M VERY GLAD TO
BE DOING IT AGAIN INSTEAD OF
COOPED UP IN SHOPS OR SITTING
AROUND WATCHING TV.
THE WAY IT WORKS, YOU GO AWAY
FOR A COUPLE OF WEEKS AND YOU
COME HOME FOR A FEW
DAYS OR WHATEVER.
WHEN THERE'S WORK TO DO, YOU DO
IT, BUT YOU HAVE TO BE MOBILE.
NOW I CAN BE MOBILE, UNLIKE THE
LAST SEVERAL YEARS WITH THE
KIDS. FIVE YEARS AGO, OR THREE
YEARS AGO EVEN, LOOKING FIVE
MINUTES AHEAD WAS KIND OF
HARD ON THE HEAD!
DIDN'T WANT TO THINK ABOUT IT.
IT'S NICE TO BE ALIVE
AGAIN, THAT'S FOR SURE.
BUT THERE WAS TENSION.
FOR SHANNON, NOW 15, THERE'S
A DIFFICULT DECISION ON
THE HORIZON, SHE HAD BEEN
VISITING HER OLDER BROTHER
AND SISTER AND WAS BEING
PRESSURED TO MOVE TO
VANCOUVER. ROSS HEIGHT
FEARED HE WOULD SOON LOSE
HIS THIRD CHILD.
(Ross) SHANNY WAS OUT THERE FOR
A WEEK AND I COULD TELL WHEN
SHANNON GOT BACK THAT
SHE WAS A DIFFERENT GIRL.
AND THEY WERE TRYING TO
CONVINCE HER AGAIN, STILL,
THAT THERE WAS SOMETHING WRONG
WITH THE ENVIRONMENT SHE WAS IN
IN SASKATOON.
DAD GOES AWAY, RIGHT,
AND HE GOES AWAY FOR
LIKE TWO OR THREE WEEKS
AT A TIME. AND SHE
DOESN'T SEE HIM
FOR THAT LONG AND
SHE STAYS WITH HIS
GIRLFRIEND AND...
I DON'T KNOW.
I THINK SHE'S JUST
CRAZY AND SHE WANTS
MORE OF HER ACTUAL
FAMILY AROUND.
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE FAMILY.
THE DECISION HE'S BEEN DREADING
IS ABOUT TO BECOME A REALITY.
AFTER LIVING WITH HER FATHER
AND CAROLINE IN THE NEW
APARTMENT, SHANNON ANNOUNCED
THAT SHE'D MADE ARRANGEMENTS TO
MOVE IN WITH HER MOTHER AND
ATTEND SCHOOL IN VANCOUVER.
(*)
I DON'T THINK SHE'S OKAY. I
DON'T THINK THINGS WILL EVER BE
OKAY OUT THERE, BUT THERE'S
NOTHING I CAN DO ABOUT IT.
AND ON THE OTHER HAND, YOU
KNOW, AM I SUPPOSED TO SPEND
THE NEXT 20 YEARS
FIGHTING THIS THING TOO?
EVENTUALLY IT'S GOING TO HAVE
TO BE UP TO THEM TO DECIDE
WHICH, WHAT KIND OF
LIFE THEY WANNA HAVE.
I THINK THAT'S THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING TO HIM IN THE
WORLD IS TO BE A FATHER TO
THOSE KIDS. BE A GOOD PARENT.
THAT'S HIS JOB.
YOU KNOW, I DID WHAT I COULD,
IF IT DOESN'T WORK OUT, WELL,
I DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE I
SHOULD HAVE DONE, YOU KNOW?
HANG ME.
HE'S JUST VERY
STUBBORN AND ALL
KINDS OF STUFF...
HE'S JUST THE WAY
HE SHOULD BE.
HE'S A DAD!
WHAT'S A GOOD DAD? WEAR FUNKY,
YUPPY SHORTS OUT GOLFING, OR?
DOING WHAT I DID? DOES A GOOD
DAD BRING HOME TONS OF MONEY
AND GIVE THE KID 100 BUCKS AND
SAY, "I'LL SEE YOU ON MONDAY",
OR WHAT DOES A GOOD DAD DO?
I DID WHAT I THOUGHT
I SHOULD BE DOING.
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS I
ADMIRE ABOUT HIM, IS HOW MUCH
HE LOVES HIS KIDS AND THINKS
ABOUT WHAT THEY NEED AND GIVES
IT TO THEM, NO MATTER WHAT.
HE'S A GOOD DAD.
I REALLY ADMIRE THAT ABOUT HIM.
THE CHILDREN ARE NOW
1800 KILOMETERS AWAY
AND HE CONSOLES HIMSELF WITH
THE MEMORABILIA ALL FAMILIES
COLLECT BUT NOT ALL KEEP.
THE ALL IMPORTANT MEMORIES
OF A SINGLE DAD.
THIS WAS FOR LOOKING AFTER
SOMEBODY IN GRADE 1 OR 2.
YOU KNOW.
BASKETBALL, VOLLEYBALL,
BADMINTON, STUDENT LEADER,
THIS KIND OF STUFF. YOU KNOW,
IT'S NOT MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS,
THERE'S NOTHING HERE RECOGNIZED
FOR OUTSTANDING SERVICE OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT, BUT STILL
IT'S ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN SPITE
OF EVERYTHING THEY
WERE GOING THROUGH.
AND SHANNY WON HER PIANO, WITH
THE ADJUDICATORS JUDGING,
JESS WON HER FLUTE. JUSTIN WAS
JAMMIN' AT BUD'S, PLAYING DRUMS.
AND THE WHOLE TIME THAT WAS
GOING ON, I WAS BEG, BORROWING,
AND STEALING MONEY TO
KEEP IT ALL GOING, EH.
SO. WAS IT WORTH IT?
YOU'RE DAMN RIGHT.
I WOULD DO IT OVER 10 TIMES.
(*)